**Why are you interested in programming? What have you done to expose yourself to programming so far?**

> I am interested in programming for many reasons, practical and personal. First, and most practically, the breadth and variety of careers within the programming sphere is incredibly appealing. The field is already enormous, and rapidly growing--especially in Seattle. I cannot overstate how much I love this town--the communities, the neighborhoods, and the incredible beauty of the PNW. As a developer I would be adding to the richness of this city that I love, not only by being an active female leader in the workplace, but also by using my skills to aid the communities I belong to. I'm an active performance artist, working in burlesque, theater, and the music scene. It is my most fervent desire to assist my fellow artists--whether it be by building a website or providing tech skills as a board member to a non-profit theater organization.
> 
>I have been exposing myself to programming by poking around at SkillCrush, Code School, and through Why's (Poignant) Guide to Ruby. I've been relearning the basics of HTML (from back in my LiveJournal days), and Ruby. I've also been speaking to established developers regarding their careers, and what they think it takes to be a good developer. 

**What are your professional goals for the next 2 years, the next 5 years?**

> In the next 2 years I intend to become a well rounded full stack programmer. I want to shape myself to be able to understand, contribute, and collaborate with my peers on all aspects of any given project, so that I may fully utilize my skills as an empathetic leader to bridge gaps in communication and between personality types. I work as the artistic director to the burlesque-theater company, Songbird & Raven. In the building of that organization I have discovered that my best skill, and the one I cherish the most, is my ability to lead a group of artists, technicians, and volunteers to create an incredible and unified product. I am passionate about bringing this skill into the development world. In the next 5 years I intend to expand my programming knowledge, and to act as a visible female leader at a successful company. Visible, because I want to show young women that they can not only compete in a male dominated field, but thrive in one. 

**Tell us about a time you made a mistake that you learned a lot from. If you encountered the situation again, what would you do differently?**

> My favorite author, Kurt Vonnegut, came to lecture at my university while I was a student. I saw the advertisement a few days before the lecture was to take place, and it fell on the night before a test in a pretty tough class. I chose to not go to the lecture in order to study, and after making that decision I recall thinking, "I'm sure I'll have another opportunity to hear him speak." About 2 years later, Mr. Vonnegut passed away. Upon hearing the news of his passing I was struck with regret at this missed opportunity--I don't recall how I did on that test, but I know I would have remembered hearing a speech from an author whose work had meant so much to me. This experience taught me to say yes more often, and to seize opportunity, as you never know when or if it will come by again.  

**Have you taught yourself anything before? Describe what you learned and how you approached it.**

> I've taught myself many things, but one of the things I'm most proud of teaching myself is how to be an adult as it relates to money. I entered into adulthood short on a couple of skills, and one of the ones I was lacking was proper money management and responsible credit use. I got myself into a fair bit of debt, and would often struggle to pay bills on time or at all. Over the last six years I have aggressively paid down debt, rehabilitated my credit, learned how to budget, and have even become the kind of person who saves money, and invests for the future.  As I made progress, it became a really fun game! I was Debt Warrior, and my sword was Mighty Knowledge! I took a read-read-read approach to this process--I did not need to reinvent the wheel, other people could guide me through their experiences. I tracked my progress in spreadsheets, and even made myself sticker charts (gold foil star stickers really do motivate!). The key to learning this was to give myself grace. To know that I would mess up, and to roll with the punches.